Add release notes for the epic version of Metals :D (#1278)
scalameta/metals: website/blog/2020-01-10-cobalt.md

---
author: Tomasz Godzik
title: Metals v0.8.0 - Cobalt
authorURL: https://twitter.com/TomekGodzik
authorImageURL: https://github.com/tgodzik.png
---

After a long while of silence and with loads of new features we are excited to

> announce the release of Metals v0.8.0 codename `Cobalt`. This release includes a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
announce the release of Metals v0.8.0, codename `Cobalt`. This release includes a
```

huge number of new features and improvements.

Metals is a language server for Scala that works with VS Code, Atom, Vim,
Sublime Text and Emacs. Metals is developed at the

> [Scala Center](https://scala.epfl.ch/) and [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com)

Reviewer 2: Add Lunatech?

Author: I was thinking about it and wanted to ask @ckipp01 , but totally forgot :sweat: 

@ckipp01 what do you think about it?

Reviewer: I'm all for it if you guys are willing. I thought about it when I read it, but didn't want to be pushy about it. However, I know Lunatech would really appreciate it.

Author: Added, is it alright?

Reviewer: Yup, that's great!

along with contributors from the community.

In this release we merged 201 PRs and closed 24 issues, full details:
https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/9?closed=1

## TL;DR

> Check out the website and give Metals a try: https://scalameta.org/metals/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out [https://scalameta.org/metals/](https://scalameta.org/metals/) and give Metals a try!
```

Author: Fixed

- goto implementation
- rename symbol
- support for Pants build tool
- run and debug for tests and main methods
- breakpoints
- improvements for Bloop integration
- first code action - import missing symbol
- worksheet support

> - Add completion to add all abstract members To mention

Reviewer: To mention?

Author: Fixed

## Goto implementation

TODO

> ## Rename symbol

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: have a "Refactors" section, which explains we've started implementing refactors. "Rename" is the first huge one (which is why it has special treatment in LSP) and we're now starting to tackle other refactors via code actions. Import symbol is the first one.

I think from a user perspective those features fall under the same hat.

Reviewer: I also like the idea of breaking them up into a couple sections. I think that lends to better readability.

TODO

## Support for Pants build tool

TODO

## Run and debug for tests and main methods

TODO @marek1840 ?

## Breakpoints

TODO @marek1840 ?

> 

Reviewer 3: Same suggestion: have a unified "Debugging" section which includes running and debugging with breakpoints.

I see breakpoints as a critical feature of a debugger, rather than a standalone one.

## Improvements for Bloop integration

TODO

> Restart Bloop automatically if newer version is needed Automatically reconnct

Reviewer 4: typo, reconnct should be reconnect

Switch to to using Bloop Launcher Remove separate plugin for Metals Bloop itself
resolves semanticdb

## Support for java 11

TODO

Currently tested on CI No warning when using 11 and it will be detected
automatically

## Worksheet support

TODO

> via decoration protocol for coc-metals and vs code via applyEdit and comments +

Reviewer: Decoration protocol for `coc-metals` isn't finished yet. Depending on when we will actually release, it may be, but as of now it's not.

Reviewer: Actually, keep it in. Just merged it in this morning.

Author: Cool! :D

hover

## Better support for Vim via coc-metals

TODO @ckipp01 ?

## Import missing symbol

TODO @gabro ?

## Other improvements

- Sort auto-completed exhaustive match'es by declaration order 1174
- Handle abstract var overrides
- Add an empty line after the package declaration before import

> - Sort auto-completed exhaustive match'es by declaration order

Reviewer: This is a duplicate from line 86.

- Encode the workspace path directory in build digests
- Tone down "No SemanticDB" warning
- Send Tree View update notification on first no-op compilation.
- Enable goToDefinition when cursor is at end of symbol
- Prioritize build targets with supported Scala versions.

> 

Reviewer: - formatting on paste for multi-line strings
- json doctor support

Author: > formatting on paste for multi-line strings

wasn't it in the previous release?

> json doctor support

It seems not really user facing, we tend to include things that users might use themselves

Reviewer: I believe the previous release had `onTypeFormatting`, but didn't support formatting on multiline string pastes. The PR is listed below https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/968.

Regarding json doctor, that makes sense, didn't think of that 👍

Author: Actually on paste formatting  was included in 0.7.6 - must have forgotten to add the PR there

Author: Actually nevermind. The fix was merged later.

Author: Added

---
author: Tomasz Godzik
title: Metals v0.8.0 - Cobalt
authorURL: https://twitter.com/TomekGodzik
authorImageURL: https://github.com/tgodzik.png
---

After a long while of silence and with loads of new features we are excited to
announce the release of Metals v0.8.0, codename `Cobalt`. This release includes
a huge number of new features and improvements, which we were perfecting over

> the last couple of months.

Reviewer: > This release includes a huge number of new features and improvements, ~which we were~ perfecting over the last couple of months.
------
This release includes a huge number of new features and improvements, which we've been perfecting over the last couple of months.

Reviewer 2: How about formulating the introduction like this?

---

We are excited to announce the release of Metals v0.8.0, codename `Cobalt`. This release includes a large number of new features and improvements, which have been under development since September 2019.

* Commits since last release: 727
* Merged PRs: 207
* Contributors: N
* Closed issues: 82
* New features: M

For full details:  https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/9?closed=1

Author: Fixed

Metals is a language server for Scala that works with VS Code, Vim, Emacs,
Sublime Text, Atom and Eclipse. Metals is developed at the
[Scala Center](https://scala.epfl.ch/) and [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com)
along with contributors from the community. Recently, Metals has also gained
support from [Lunatech](https://lunatech.com) with the contributions from
@ckipp01. We are extremely grateful for the growing support from the community
and businesses alike, which shows in the number of new contributions and their
quality.

> In this release we merged 207 PRs and closed 82 issues, full details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release we merged 207 PRs and closed 82 issues!
```

Author: Applied Olaf's suggestion.

> https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/9?closed=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full details: [https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/9?closed=1](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/9?closed=1)
```

Author: Applied Olaf's suggestion.

## TL;DR

Check out [https://scalameta.org/metals/](https://scalameta.org/metals/) and
give Metals a try!

- go to implementations
- rename symbol
- first code action - import missing symbol

> - support for Pants build tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- support for the Pants build tool
```

Author: Fixed

> - run and debug for tests and main methods

Reviewer 2: This can go higher IMO

Author: Moved it as one of the first

- improvements for Bloop integration
- worksheet support
- better support for Vim via coc-metals
- completion to add all abstract members

## Navigation

### Go to implementations

Additional index was created inside of Metals that keeps up-to-date information
about class hierarchies inside the workspace based on the SemanticDB
information. This allows us to find both all classes extending the particular
parent class and symbols being implemented inside of those classes. Due to usage

> of semanticDB, this will work after the workspace is fully compiled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of semanticDB, this will only work after the workspace is fully compiled.
```

Author: Fixed

> of semanticDB, this will work after the workspace is fully compiled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of SemanticDB, this will work after the workspace is fully compiled.
```

Author: Fixed

> of semanticDB, this will work after the workspace is fully compiled.

Author: Hmm... maybe we can follow up with a blog entry detailing implementation

> of semanticDB, this will work after the workspace is fully compiled.

Author: Switched to you version, sounds indeed better,  we should detail the implementation in a separate blog post.

![implementations](https://i.imgur.com/rke6iny.gif)

> Finding implementation also works for symbols outside of the workspace, although

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find implementations also works for symbols outside of the workspace, although
```

Author: It's the activity of finding implementation - that's what I was aiming for,

in that case it might take a while to load the classpath symbol information at

> first. Consecutive calls will reuse cached classpath symbols information, so

Reviewer: > in that case it might take a while to load the classpath symbol information at
first.
------
in that case, it might take a while to load the classpath symbol information for the first time.

Author: Fixed

> this might take longer only once per build target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this might take longer only once per build target.
```
```suggestion
this might take longer once per build target.
```

Author: Fixed

> ## Refactor

Author: Good idea, added.

### Rename symbol

> Thanks to implementing the `Go to implementations` feature, we were able to work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the implementation of the `Go to implementations` feature, we were able to work
```

on a proper rename for any workspace symbol that will rename all occurences of a
symbol even if that symbol is a part of a class hierarchy.

![rename](https://i.imgur.com/QHaJCr0.gif)

There are a couple of cases in which rename might behave differently based on
the particular symbol being renamed:

- renaming an overriden symbol will rename all occurrences for both parent and

>   all children overriding that symbol,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  all children overriding that symbol
```

Author: Fixed

> - java symbols are not renamed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- java symbols are not renamed
```

Author: Fixed

- renaming "hashCode", "unapply", "unary\_!", "!" is not supported, since they

>   change the semantics,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  change the semantics
```

Author: Fixed

- methods starting with `:` can only be renamed to ones with the same first

>   character to make sure code compiles afterwards,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  character to make sure code compiles afterwards
```

Author: Fixed

- renaming apply will change all occurrences with just `()` to a full name

>   `.newname()`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `.newname()`
```

Author: Fixed

- if renaming a class with the same name as the file, the file's name will also

>   be renamed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be renamed
```

Author: Fixed

> - companion objects will also be renamed with their companion classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- companion objects will also be renamed with their companion classes
```

Author: Fixed

> ### Completion to add all abstract members

Reviewer 3: Nit: I don't think this should go under "Refactor", since it's a completion item.

> TODO @ckipp01 ?

Reviewer: In the past when you were implementing an abstract member in a concrete class, you'd see the completion option to override the member. However, if you wanted to implement all of the abstract members, you'd need to do each one individually. Now you'll see a new completion option in the scenario to `Implement all members` which will implement all the members at once.

![implement all members](https://i.imgur.com/ayBaCDU.gif)

Author: Thanks! Added the whole section.

### Import missing symbol

> TODO @gabro ?

Reviewer 3: Another refactor that is commonly requested is the ability to fix a compilation error by auto-importing a symbol present on the classpath.

This was previously possible in Metals only during completions, but we were lacking what LSP calls a _code action_.

Code actions are context-sensitive actions that are proposed to the user in order to fix an error or to perform a relevant refactor.

Thanks to the work of @gabro we now have a basic architecture in place for supporting code actions and we were able to implement this feature.

![2019-12-11 18 12 34](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/691940/72205552-b5e17300-3484-11ea-8a32-795c517c9d58.gif)

Author: Thanks! Added.

## Build tools

> ### Support for Pants build tool

Reviewer 2: We can use this for the Pants integration for now:

```suggestion
### Experimental build tool support for Pants

Thanks to the recent work by [@olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg), there's now experimental support for the Pants build tool. The Pants integration is still evolving so it's not yet documented. The end goal is to support Pants in the same way as other build tools like sbt, Maven and Gradle. 
```

There's still a lot of remaining work to support more advanced Pants features like bundles.

Author: Ok cool, added the `Experimanetal` tag

> Thanks to recent work by @olafurpg you can now use Metals with the Pants build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the recent work by @olafurpg you can now use Metals with the Pants build
```

Author: Fixed

> tool. The support will is the same as in case of other build tools, the Pants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tool. The support is the same as the other supported build tools. The Pants
```

Author: Fixed

workspace will be detected automatically and an automatic import will be
suggested.

The support is currently included inside of Metals itself in contrast to other
build tools, which have their `bloopInstall` command implemented inside Bloop.
It is important to note that we are still working on improvements that will help
with large codebases that Pants is usually used for.

### Improvements for Bloop integration

> In order to make the integration between Bloop and Metals a more smooth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to make the integration between Bloop and Metals a smoother
```

Author: Fixed

> experience several new improvements are now included in this release. There are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
experience, several new improvements are included in this release. There are
```

Author: Fixed

> based on feedback from the user as well us our own experiences while working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
based on feedback from users as well as our own experiences while working
```

Author: Fixed

with Metals and should make the overall experience of importing the build and
compiling much better.

#### SemanticDB is resolved inside Bloop

> Metals require the SemanticDB compiler plugin for a number of features to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metals requires the SemanticDB compiler plugin for a number of features to
```

Author: Fixed

function properly. Because of that it was quite difficult to add it
automatically in all supported plugins even if those supported Bloop itself.
Perfect examples are Seed and Fury, which use Bloop to compile code, however
adding a plugin automatically would require changes to their core code.

Currently, thanks to

> [recent changes](https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/942) Metals can send

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[recent changes](https://github.com/scalacenter/bloop/pull/942), Metals can send
```

Author: Fixed

information about the SemanticDB version, which Bloop uses to automatically
download and configure the SemanticDB scalac plugin. Thanks to that no changes
in the build tool itself are needed. Particular changes in regards to build
tools are:

- Gradle - predef script code used in automatic import is now simplified a lot
  and works with even more customized workspaces. The only thing it needs to do
  is add the Bloop plugin and run `bloopInstall`, which can easily be done
  automatically by the user.
- Maven - no manual configuration is now needed. To import automatically just
  the plugin is needed to be invoked with a setting for downloading sources.
- Sbt - the `metals-sbt` plugin is now removed and the Bloop plugin is now added

>   via automatically generated `./project/metals.sbt` file and run when imported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  via automatically generated `./project/metals.sbt` file and ran when imported
```

Author: Fixed

  automatically. Thanks to this solution it should be possible to reuse Metals
  compilation in the upcoming feature for offloading compilation in Sbt.
- Mill - logic for adding semanticDB plugin is removed from Mill.
- Pants, Fury, Seed - no changes were needed for the semanticDB integration and
  should work out of the box.

#### Switch to to using Bloop Launcher

Instead of using internal Metals logic, we now use the Bloop Launcher, which
enables us to either connect to an existing Bsp server or start a new Bloop

> instance with the specified version if nothing is running. This simplified the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instance with the specified version if none is running. This simplified the
```

Author: Fixed

> connection to Bloop greatly and enabled to work on further improvements.

Reviewer: > This simplified the connection to Bloop greatly and enabled to work on further improvements.

-------

This greatly simplified the connection to Bloop and enabled us to work on further improvements.

Author: Fixed

#### Restart Bloop automatically if newer version is needed

Whenever Metals is started and connects to the Bloop build server it receives
information about the version it is running. We compare that version to the one
needed by Metals to make sure everything is properly working. If the version
running currently is older we offer to restart it automatically and start a new

> one. Only if Bloop was installed manually it might not be work.

Reviewer: > If the version running currently is older we offer to restart it automatically and start a new
one. Only if Bloop was installed manually it might not be work.
-----
If the current running version is older we offer to automatically restart it with the newer version. However, this may not work if Bloop was installed manually.

Author: Fixed

#### Automatically reconnect to Bsp/Bloop if connection is broken

> There were numerous issues reported that the connection to Bps or Bloop is being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There were numerous issues reported that the connection to Bps or Bloop was being
```

Author: Fixed

lost, which causes Metals to behave erratically due to no compilation being run.

> To solve this, we now detect if the connection is closed and offer user the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this, we now detect if the connection is closed and offer the user the
```

Author: Fixed

option of automatic reconnection. This works both when the build server was

> downed and when the connection was just interrupted. It should also solve the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
down and when the connection was just interrupted. It should also solve the
```

Author: Fixed

issues on MacOs with dropped connection.

> ## Debugging

Reviewer 2: This can go higher up IMO

> It is possible now to run main methods and tests via a clickable code lens,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is now possible to run main methods and tests via a clickable code lens.
```

Author: Fixed

> however it currently only works in Visual Studio Code. We also allow setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it currently only works in Visual Studio Code. We also allow setting
```

Author: Fixed

You will need to handle two commands in your language client extension:
[`metals-run-session-start`](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/blob/master/metals/src/main/scala/scala/meta/internal/metals/ClientCommands.scala#L56)
and
[`metals-debug-session-start`](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/blob/master/metals/src/main/scala/scala/meta/internal/metals/ClientCommands.scala#L78).
Those commands should get executed automatically by the lsp client once the user
activates a code lens. The difference between them is that the former ignores
all breakpoints being set while the latter respects them. The procedure of
starting the run/debug session is as follows:

1. Request the debug adapter uri from metals server using the
   [`debug-adapter-start`](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/blob/master/metals/src/main/scala/scala/meta/internal/metals/ServerCommands.scala#L95)
   command.
2. Connect the debug adapter extension specific to you editor using the
   aforementioned uri and let it drive the run/debug session. For reference,
   take a look at the
   [vscode implementation](https://github.com/scalameta/metals-vscode/blob/master/src/scalaDebugger.ts)
   and how it is

>    [wired up together](https://github.com/scalameta/metals-vscode/blob/master/src/extension.ts#L356)

Reviewer 3: I think this section belong to the docs more than to the release notes.

Author: I agree and moved it to a separate document.

## Worksheet support

Thanks to great work by @olafurpg and some additional refinements by
@alekseiAlefirov, worksheets are now available in all supported editors.

Worksheets are way to evaluate code real time to test and prototype any new code
in an simple way. To create a worksheet all that is needed is to create a file
with the extension `worksheet.sc` and Metals will take care of the rest.

There are two ways worksheets are implemented for different editors. One is with
an additional extension to LSP called `Decoration extension` and it's used by
Visual Studio Code and coc-metals.

Visual Studio Code:

![worksheet](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1408093/68093266-b0b3e680-fe8b-11e9-92dd-0165f169966f.gif)

The other way worksheets are implemented for all other editors that don't
support the `Decoration extension` is using workspace/applyEdits and comments
with hover for larger results.

Sublime:

![worksheet2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10850363/70265661-29fc6d00-179b-11ea-842e-935045e27f96.gif)

## Better support for Vim via coc-metals

> TODO @ckipp01 ?

Reviewer: In order to better support the Vim experience with Metals, [`coc-metals`](https://github.com/ckipp01/coc-metals) extension was created which is an extension for [`coc.nvim`](https://github.com/neoclide/coc.nvim), the most popular LSP client for Vim and Neovim. With this new extension comes a whole bunch of new features for Metals + Vim users.

  - automated installation
  - easier configuration options
  - easier workspace commands
  - embedded doctor
  - input box support
  - implementation of the decoration protocol (Neovim only)

![coc-metals](https://i.imgur.com/zofu4VI.png)

Author: Thanks, added everything here too.

## Support for java 11

> Thanks to @isomarcte we now run all tests additionally on JDK 11, which enables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to @isomarcte we now also run all tests on JDK 11, which enables
```

Author: Fixed

Thanks to the implementation of the `Go to implementations` feature, we were
able to work on a proper rename for any workspace symbol that will rename all
occurrences of a symbol even if that symbol is a part of a class hierarchy.

![rename](https://i.imgur.com/QHaJCr0.gif)

There are a couple of cases in which rename might behave differently based on
the particular symbol being renamed:

- renaming an overriden symbol will rename all occurrences for both parent and
  all children overriding that symbol
- java symbols are not renamed
- renaming "hashCode", "unapply", "unary\_!", "!" is not supported, since they
  change the semantics
- methods starting with `:` can only be renamed to ones with the same first
  character to make sure code compiles afterwards
- renaming apply will change all occurrences with just `()` to a full name
  `.newname()`
- if renaming a class with the same name as the file, the file's name will also
  be renamed
- companion objects will also be renamed with their companion classes

## Worksheet support

Thanks to great work by @olafurpg and some additional refinements by
@alekseiAlefirov, worksheets are now available in all supported editors.

> Worksheets are way to evaluate code real time to test and prototype any new code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Worksheets are way to evaluate code in real time to test and prototype any new code
```

Visual Studio Code:

![worksheet](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1408093/68093266-b0b3e680-fe8b-11e9-92dd-0165f169966f.gif)

The other way worksheets are implemented for all other editors that don't
support the `Decoration extension` is using workspace/applyEdits and comments
with hover for larger results.

Sublime:

![worksheet2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10850363/70265661-29fc6d00-179b-11ea-842e-935045e27f96.gif)

## Build tools

### Experimental build tool support for Pants

Thanks to the recent work by @olafurpg you can now use Metals with the Pants
build tool. The support is the same as the other supported build tools. The
Pants workspace will be detected automatically and an automatic import will be
suggested.

The support is currently included inside of Metals itself in contrast to other
build tools, which have their `bloopInstall` command implemented inside Bloop.
It is important to note that we are still working on improvements that will help
with large codebases that Pants is usually used for.

### Improvements for Bloop integration

In order to make the integration between Bloop and Metals a smoother experience,

> several new improvements are included in this release. There are based on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
several new improvements are included in this release. They're based on
```

server was down and when the connection was just interrupted. It should also
solve the issues on MacOs with dropped connection.

## Completions

### Import missing symbol

Another refactor that is commonly requested is the ability to fix a compilation
error by auto-importing a symbol present on the classpath.

This was previously possible in Metals only during completions, but we were
lacking what LSP calls a code action.

Code actions are context-sensitive actions that are proposed to the user in
order to fix an error or to perform a relevant refactor.

Thanks to the work of @gabro we now have a basic architecture in place for
supporting code actions and we were able to implement this feature.

## Better support for Vim via coc-metals

In order to better support the Vim experience with Metals, coc-metals extension
was created which is an extension for coc.nvim, the most popular LSP client for
Vim and Neovim. With this new extension comes a whole bunch of new features for
Metals + Vim users.

- automated installation
- easier configuration options
- easier workspace commands
- embedded doctor
- input box support
- implementation of the decoration protocol (Neovim only)

> ~[coc-metals](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/0f56f5a3a874e7c69eff3aaeb2dfe47dc586e3d3/68747470733a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f7a6f66753456492e706e67)

Reviewer: Should this be a `!` instead of a `~`?

Author: Fixed!

---
author: Tomasz Godzik
title: Metals v0.8.0 - Cobalt
authorURL: https://twitter.com/TomekGodzik
authorImageURL: https://github.com/tgodzik.png
---

We are excited to announce the release of Metals v0.8.0, codename Cobalt. This
release includes a large number of new features and improvements, which have
been under development since September 2019.

Commits since last release: 727

Merged PRs: 214

Contributors: 19

Closed issues: 84

New features: 8

For full details: https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/9?closed=1

Metals is a language server for Scala that works with VS Code, Vim, Emacs,
Sublime Text, Atom and Eclipse. Metals is developed at the
[Scala Center](https://scala.epfl.ch/) and [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com)
along with contributors from the community. Recently, Metals has also gained
support from [Lunatech](https://lunatech.com) with the contributions from
[@ckipp01](https://github.com/ckipp01). We are extremely grateful for the

> growing support from the community and business alike, which shows in the number

Author: Fixed

of new contributions and their quality.

## TL;DR

Check out [https://scalameta.org/metals/](https://scalameta.org/metals/) and
give Metals a try!

- run and debug for tests and main methods
- go to implementations
- rename symbol
- first code action - import missing symbol
- worksheet support
- experimental support for the Pants build tool
- improvements for Bloop integration
- better support for Vim via coc-metals
- completion to add all abstract members
- scaladoc auto completion on type `/**`

## Debugging

> It is possible to run main methods and tests via a clickable code lens. However,

Author: Fixed, thanks!

![missing-symbol](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/691940/68937367-8839bf80-079c-11ea-8401-4927f6531d24.gif)

## Worksheet support

Thanks to great work by @olafurpg and some additional refinements by
@alekseiAlefirov, worksheets are now available in all supported editors.

Worksheets are a way to evaluate code in real time to test and prototype any new
features in a simple way. To create a worksheet all that is needed is to create
a file with the extension `worksheet.sc` and Metals will take care of the rest.

There are two ways worksheets are implemented for different editors. One is with
an additional extension to LSP called `Decoration extension` and it's used by
Visual Studio Code and coc-metals.

Visual Studio Code:

![worksheet](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1408093/68093266-b0b3e680-fe8b-11e9-92dd-0165f169966f.gif)

The other way worksheets are implemented for all other editors that don't
support the `Decoration extension` is using workspace/applyEdits and comments
with hover for larger results.

Sublime:

![worksheet2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10850363/70265661-29fc6d00-179b-11ea-842e-935045e27f96.gif)

## Build tools

> ### Experimental build tool support for Pants

Reviewer 2: This section did not incorporate yet the full suggestion from  https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/1278#discussion_r365410510

> Thanks to the recent work by [@olafurpg](https://github.com/olafurpg), there's now experimental support for the Pants build tool. The Pants integration is still evolving so it's not yet documented. The end goal is to support Pants in the same way as other build tools like sbt, Maven and Gradle. 

We don't need to say more about Pants for now.

Author: Missed it! Sorry - added that paragraph and removed the previous version

  via automatically generated `./project/metals.sbt` file and ran when imported
  automatically. Thanks to this solution it should be possible to reuse Metals
  compilation in the upcoming feature for offloading compilation in Sbt.
- Mill - logic for adding semanticDB plugin is removed from Mill.
- Pants, Fury, Seed - no changes were needed for the semanticDB integration and
  should work out of the box.

#### Switch to to using Bloop Launcher

Instead of using internal Metals logic, we now use the Bloop Launcher, which
enables us to either connect to an existing Bsp server or start a new Bloop
instance with the specified version if none is running. This greatly simplified
the connection to Bloop and enabled us to work on further improvements.

#### Restart Bloop automatically if newer version is needed

Whenever Metals is started and connects to the Bloop build server it receives
information about the version it is running. We compare that version to the one
needed by Metals to make sure everything is properly working. If the current
running version is older we offer to automatically restart it with the newer
version. However, this may not work if Bloop was installed manually.

> #### Automatically reconnect to Bsp/Bloop if connection is broken

Reviewer 2: Are we sure we need level 4 nested headers? I think levels 2 and 3 are usually enough.

Author: Reduced to level 3 - I was sure about it easier. I moved the intro just below the `Build tools` header and was able to reduce to 3.
